docs/en/Migration-Guides/Abp-5_0.md, before:

# ABP Framework v4.x to v5.0 Migration Guide

This document is a guide for upgrading ABP 4.x solutions to ABP 5.0. Please read them all since 5.0 has some important breaking changes.

## .NET 6.0

ABP 5.0 runs on .NET 6.0. So, please upgrade your solution to .NET 6.0 if you want to use ABP 5.0. You can see [Microsoft's migration guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/migration/50-to-60).

## Bootstrap 5

ABP 5.0 uses the Bootstrap 5 as the fundamental HTML/CSS framework. We've migrated all the UI themes, tag helpers, UI components and the pages of the pre-built application modules. You may need to update your own pages by following the [Bootstrap's migration guide](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.0/migration/).

## Startup Template Changes

The startup template has changed. You don't need to apply all the changes, but it is strongly suggested to follow [this guide](Upgrading-Startup-Template.md) and make the necessary changes for your solution.

## ABP Framework

This section contains breaking changes in the ABP Framework.

### MongoDB

ABP Framework will serialize the datetime based on [AbpClockOptions](https://docs.abp.io/en/abp/latest/Timing#clock-options) starting from ABP v5.0. It was saving `DateTime` values as UTC in MongoDB. Check out [MongoDB Datetime Serialization Options](https://mongodb.github.io/mongo-csharp-driver/2.13/reference/bson/mapping/#datetime-serialization-options).

If you want to revert back this feature, set `UseAbpClockHandleDateTime` to `false` in `AbpMongoDbOptions`:

```cs
Configure<AbpMongoDbOptions>(x => x.UseAbpClockHandleDateTime = false);
```

### Publishing Auto-Events in the Same Unit of Work

Local and distributed auto-events are handled in the same unit of work now. That means the event handles are executed in the same database transaction and they can rollback the transaction if they throw any exception. The new behavior may affect your previous assumptions. See [#9896](https://github.com/abpframework/abp/issues/9896) for more.

#### Deprecated EntityCreatingEventData, EntityUpdatingEventData, EntityDeletingEventData and EntityChangingEventData

As a side effect of the previous change, `EntityCreatingEventData`, `EntityUpdatingEventData`, `EntityDeletingEventData` and `EntityChangingEventData` is not necessary now, because `EntityCreatedEventData`, `EntityUpdatedEventData`, `EntityDeletedEventData` and `EntityChangedEventData` is already taken into the current unit of work. Please switch to `EntityCreatedEventData`, `EntityUpdatedEventData`, `EntityDeletedEventData` and `EntityChangedEventData` if you've used the deprecated events. See [#9897](https://github.com/abpframework/abp/issues/9897) to learn more.

### Removed ModelBuilderConfigurationOptions classes

If you've used these classes, please remove their usages and use the static properties to customize the module's database mappings. See [#8887](https://github.com/abpframework/abp/issues/8887) for more.

### Removed Obsolete APIs

* `IRepository` doesn't inherit from `IQueryable` anymore. It was [made obsolete in 4.2](https://docs.abp.io/en/abp/latest/Migration-Guides/Abp-4_2#irepository-getqueryableasync).

### Other Breaking Changes

* [#9549](https://github.com/abpframework/abp/pull/9549) `IObjectValidator` methods have been changed to asynchronous.
* [#9940](https://github.com/abpframework/abp/pull/9940) Use ASP NET Core's authentication scheme to handle `AbpAuthorizationException`.
* [#9180](https://github.com/abpframework/abp/pull/9180) Use `IRemoteContentStream` without form content headers.

## UI Providers

* [Angular UI 4.x to 5.0 Migration Guide](Abp-5_0-Angular.md)
* [ASP.NET Core MVC / Razor Pages UI 4.x to 5.0 Migration Guide](Abp-5-0-MVC.md)
* [Blazor UI 4.x to 5.0 Migration Guide](Abp-5-0-Blazor.md)

## Modules

This section contains breaking and important changes in the application modules.

### Identity

#### User Active/Passive

An `IsActive` (`bool`) property is added to the `IdentityUser` entity. This flag will be checked during the authentication of the users. EF Core developers need to add a new database migration and update their databases.

**After the database migration, set this property to `true` for the existing users: `UPDATE AbpUsers SET IsActive=1`**. Otherwise, none of the users can login to the application.

Alternatively, you can set `defaultValue` to `true` in the migration class (after adding the migration).
This will add the column with `true` value for the existing records.

```cs
public partial class AddIsActiveToIdentityUser : Migration
{
    protected override void Up(MigrationBuilder migrationBuilder)
    {
        migrationBuilder.AddColumn<bool>(
            name: "IsActive",
            table: "AbpUsers",
            type: "bit",
            nullable: false,
            defaultValue: true); // Default is false, change it to true.
    }

    protected override void Down(MigrationBuilder migrationBuilder)
    {
        migrationBuilder.DropColumn(
            name: "IsActive",
            table: "AbpUsers");
    }
}
```

For MongoDB, you need to update the `IsActive` field for the existing users in the database.

You can use following script in MongoShell:
```js
db.AbpUsers.updateMany({},{$set:{ IsActive : true }})
```

#### Identity -> Account API Changes

`IProfileAppService` (and the implementation and the related DTOs) are moved to the Account module from the Identity module (done with [this PR](https://github.com/abpframework/abp/pull/10370/files)).

### IdentityServer

`IApiScopeRepository.GetByNameAsync` method renamed as `FindByNameAsync`.

## See Also

* [Angular UI 4.x to 5.0 Migration Guide](Abp-5_0-Angular.md)
* [ASP.NET Core MVC / Razor Pages UI 4.x to 5.0 Migration Guide]()
* [Blazor UI 4.x to 5.0 Migration Guide](Abp-5-0-Blazor.md)

Commit message:

Added "Automatically Setting the TenantId for New Entities" section to the migration guide for 5.0

docs/en/Migration-Guides/Abp-5_0.md, after:

# ABP Framework v4.x to v5.0 Migration Guide

This document is a guide for upgrading ABP 4.x solutions to ABP 5.0. Please read them all since 5.0 has some important breaking changes.

## .NET 6.0

ABP 5.0 runs on .NET 6.0. So, please upgrade your solution to .NET 6.0 if you want to use ABP 5.0. You can see [Microsoft's migration guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/migration/50-to-60).

## Bootstrap 5

ABP 5.0 uses the Bootstrap 5 as the fundamental HTML/CSS framework. We've migrated all the UI themes, tag helpers, UI components and the pages of the pre-built application modules. You may need to update your own pages by following the [Bootstrap's migration guide](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.0/migration/).

## Startup Template Changes

The startup template has changed. You don't need to apply all the changes, but it is strongly suggested to follow [this guide](Upgrading-Startup-Template.md) and make the necessary changes for your solution.

## ABP Framework

This section contains breaking changes in the ABP Framework.

### MongoDB

ABP Framework will serialize the datetime based on [AbpClockOptions](https://docs.abp.io/en/abp/latest/Timing#clock-options) starting from ABP v5.0. It was saving `DateTime` values as UTC in MongoDB. Check out [MongoDB Datetime Serialization Options](https://mongodb.github.io/mongo-csharp-driver/2.13/reference/bson/mapping/#datetime-serialization-options).

If you want to revert back this feature, set `UseAbpClockHandleDateTime` to `false` in `AbpMongoDbOptions`:

```cs
Configure<AbpMongoDbOptions>(x => x.UseAbpClockHandleDateTime = false);
```

### Publishing Auto-Events in the Same Unit of Work

Local and distributed auto-events are handled in the same unit of work now. That means the event handles are executed in the same database transaction and they can rollback the transaction if they throw any exception. The new behavior may affect your previous assumptions. See [#9896](https://github.com/abpframework/abp/issues/9896) for more.

#### Deprecated EntityCreatingEventData, EntityUpdatingEventData, EntityDeletingEventData and EntityChangingEventData

As a side effect of the previous change, `EntityCreatingEventData`, `EntityUpdatingEventData`, `EntityDeletingEventData` and `EntityChangingEventData` is not necessary now, because `EntityCreatedEventData`, `EntityUpdatedEventData`, `EntityDeletedEventData` and `EntityChangedEventData` is already taken into the current unit of work. Please switch to `EntityCreatedEventData`, `EntityUpdatedEventData`, `EntityDeletedEventData` and `EntityChangedEventData` if you've used the deprecated events. See [#9897](https://github.com/abpframework/abp/issues/9897) to learn more.

### Removed ModelBuilderConfigurationOptions classes

If you've used these classes, please remove their usages and use the static properties to customize the module's database mappings. See [#8887](https://github.com/abpframework/abp/issues/8887) for more.

### Removed Obsolete APIs

* `IRepository` doesn't inherit from `IQueryable` anymore. It was [made obsolete in 4.2](https://docs.abp.io/en/abp/latest/Migration-Guides/Abp-4_2#irepository-getqueryableasync).

### Automatically Setting the TenantId for New Entities

Beginning from the version 5.0, ABP automatically sets the `TenantId` for you when you create a new entity object (that implements the `IMultiTenant` interface). It is done in the constructor of the base `Entity` class (all other base entity and aggregate root classes are derived from the `Entity` class). The `TenantId` is set from the current value of the `ICurrentTenant.Id` property.

This can be a breaking change in rare cases (for example, if you create host side entities from a tenant context and do not explicitly set host entity's `TenantId` to `null`).

### Other Breaking Changes

* [#9549](https://github.com/abpframework/abp/pull/9549) `IObjectValidator` methods have been changed to asynchronous.
* [#9940](https://github.com/abpframework/abp/pull/9940) Use ASP NET Core's authentication scheme to handle `AbpAuthorizationException`.
* [#9180](https://github.com/abpframework/abp/pull/9180) Use `IRemoteContentStream` without form content headers.

## UI Providers

* [Angular UI 4.x to 5.0 Migration Guide](Abp-5_0-Angular.md)
* [ASP.NET Core MVC / Razor Pages UI 4.x to 5.0 Migration Guide](Abp-5-0-MVC.md)
* [Blazor UI 4.x to 5.0 Migration Guide](Abp-5-0-Blazor.md)

## Modules

This section contains breaking and important changes in the application modules.

### Identity

#### User Active/Passive

An `IsActive` (`bool`) property is added to the `IdentityUser` entity. This flag will be checked during the authentication of the users. EF Core developers need to add a new database migration and update their databases.

**After the database migration, set this property to `true` for the existing users: `UPDATE AbpUsers SET IsActive=1`**. Otherwise, none of the users can login to the application.

Alternatively, you can set `defaultValue` to `true` in the migration class (after adding the migration).
This will add the column with `true` value for the existing records.

```cs
public partial class AddIsActiveToIdentityUser : Migration
{
    protected override void Up(MigrationBuilder migrationBuilder)
    {
        migrationBuilder.AddColumn<bool>(
            name: "IsActive",
            table: "AbpUsers",
            type: "bit",
            nullable: false,
            defaultValue: true); // Default is false, change it to true.
    }

    protected override void Down(MigrationBuilder migrationBuilder)
    {
        migrationBuilder.DropColumn(
            name: "IsActive",
            table: "AbpUsers");
    }
}
```

For MongoDB, you need to update the `IsActive` field for the existing users in the database.

You can use following script in MongoShell:
```js
db.AbpUsers.updateMany({},{$set:{ IsActive : true }})
```

#### Identity -> Account API Changes

`IProfileAppService` (and the implementation and the related DTOs) are moved to the Account module from the Identity module (done with [this PR](https://github.com/abpframework/abp/pull/10370/files)).

### IdentityServer

`IApiScopeRepository.GetByNameAsync` method renamed as `FindByNameAsync`.

## See Also

* [Angular UI 4.x to 5.0 Migration Guide](Abp-5_0-Angular.md)
* [ASP.NET Core MVC / Razor Pages UI 4.x to 5.0 Migration Guide]()
* [Blazor UI 4.x to 5.0 Migration Guide](Abp-5-0-Blazor.md)
