docs/en/UI/Angular/Confirmation-Service.md, before:

# Confirmation Popup

You can use the `ConfirmationService` in @abp/ng.theme.shared package to display a confirmation popup by placing at the root level in your project.


## Getting Started

You do not have to provide the `ConfirmationService` at module or component level, because it is already **provided in root**. You can inject and start using it immediately in your components, directives, or services.


```js
import { ConfirmationService } from '@abp/ng.theme.shared';

@Component({
  /* class metadata here */
})
class DemoComponent {
  constructor(private confirmation: ConfirmationService) {}
}
```

## Usage

You can use the `success`, `warn`, `error`, and `info` methods of `ConfirmationService` to display a confirmation popup.

### How to Display a Confirmation Popup

```js
const confirmationStatus$ = this.confirmation.success('Message', 'Title');
```

- The `ConfirmationService` methods accept three parameters that are `message`, `title`, and `options`.
- `success`, `warn`, `error`, and `info` methods return an [RxJS Subject](https://rxjs-dev.firebaseapp.com/guide/subject) to listen to confirmation popup closing event. The type of event value is [`Confirmation.Status`](https://github.com/abpframework/abp/blob/master/npm/ng-packs/packages/theme-shared/src/lib/models/confirmation.ts#L24) that is an enum.

### How to Listen Closing Event

You can subscribe to the confirmation closing event like below:

```js
import { Confirmation, ConfirmationService } from '@abp/ng.theme.shared';

constructor(private confirmation: ConfirmationService) {}

this.confirmation
  .warn('::WillBeDeleted', { key: '::AreYouSure', defaultValue: 'Are you sure?' })
  .subscribe((status: Confirmation.Status) => {
    // your code here
  });
```


- The `message` and `title` parameters accept a string, localization key or localization object. See the [localization document](./Localization.md)
- `Confirmation.Status` is an enum and has three properties;
    - `Confirmation.Status.confirm` is a closing event value that will be emitted when the popup is closed by the confirm button.
    - `Confirmation.Status.reject` is a closing event value that will be emitted when the popup is closed by the cancel button.
    - `Confirmation.Status.dismiss` is a closing event value that will be emitted when the popup is closed by pressing the escape or clicking the backdrop.


If you are not interested in the confirmation status, you do not have to subscribe to the returned observable:

```js
this.confirmation.error('You are not authorized.', 'Error');
```

### How to Display a Confirmation Popup With Given Options

Options can be passed as the third parameter to `success`, `warn`, `error`, and `info` methods:

```js
const options: Partial<Confirmation.Options> = {
  hideCancelBtn: false,
  hideYesBtn: false,
  dismissible: false,
  cancelText: 'Close',
  yesText: 'Confirm',
  messageLocalizationParams: ['Demo'],
  titleLocalizationParams: [],
};

this.confirmation.warn(
  'AbpIdentity::RoleDeletionConfirmationMessage',
  'Are you sure?',
  options,
);
```

- `hideCancelBtn` option hides the cancellation button when `true`. Default value is `false`.
- `hideYesBtn` option hides the confirmation button when `true`. Default value is `false`.
- `dismissible` option allows dismissing the confirmation popup by pressing escape or clicking the backdrop. Default value is `true`.
- `cancelText` is the text of the cancellation button. A localization key or localization object can be passed. Default value is `AbpUi::Cancel`.
- `yesText` is the text of the confirmation button. A localization key or localization object can be passed. Default value is `AbpUi::Yes`.
- `messageLocalizationParams` is the interpolation parameters for the localization of the message.
- `titleLocalizationParams` is the interpolation parameters for the localization of the title.

With the options above, the confirmation popup looks like this:

![confirmation](./images/confirmation.png)

You are able to pass in an HTML string as title, message, or button texts. Here is an example:

```js
const options: Partial<Confirmation.Options> = {
  yesText: '<i class="fa fa-trash mr-1"></i>Yes, delete it',
};

this.confirmation.warn(
  `
    <strong>Role Demo</strong> will be <strong>deleted</strong>
    <br>
    Do you confirm that?
  `,
  '<span class="my-custom-title">Are you sure?</span>',
  options,
);
```

Since the values are HTML now, localization should be handled manually. Check out the [LocalizationService](./Localization#using-the-localization-service) to see how you can accomplish that.

> Please note that all strings will be sanitized by Angular and not every HTML string will work. Only values that are considered as "safe" by Angular will be displayed.

### How to Remove a Confirmation Popup

The open confirmation popup can be removed manually via the `clear` method:

```js
this.confirmation.clear();
```

## API

### success

```js
success(
  message: Config.LocalizationParam,
  title: Config.LocalizationParam,
  options?: Partial<Confirmation.Options>,
): Observable<Confirmation.Status>
```

> See the [`Config.LocalizationParam` type](https://github.com/abpframework/abp/blob/master/npm/ng-packs/packages/core/src/lib/models/config.ts#L46) and [`Confirmation` namespace](https://github.com/abpframework/abp/blob/master/npm/ng-packs/packages/theme-shared/src/lib/models/confirmation.ts)


### warn

```js
warn(
  message: Config.LocalizationParam,
  title: Config.LocalizationParam,
  options?: Partial<Confirmation.Options>,
): Observable<Confirmation.Status>
```

### error

```js
error(
  message: Config.LocalizationParam,
  title: Config.LocalizationParam,
  options?: Partial<Confirmation.Options>,
): Observable<Confirmation.Status>
```

### info

```js
info(
  message: Config.LocalizationParam,
  title: Config.LocalizationParam,
  options?: Partial<Confirmation.Options>,
): Observable<Confirmation.Status>
```

### clear

```js
clear(
  status: Confirmation.Status = Confirmation.Status.dismiss
): void
```

- `status` parameter is the value of the confirmation closing event.

Commit message:

Icon customization properties added to confirmation popup. Issue #11511

docs/en/UI/Angular/Confirmation-Service.md, after:

# Confirmation Popup

You can use the `ConfirmationService` in @abp/ng.theme.shared package to display a confirmation popup by placing at the root level in your project.


## Getting Started

You do not have to provide the `ConfirmationService` at module or component level, because it is already **provided in root**. You can inject and start using it immediately in your components, directives, or services.


```js
import { ConfirmationService } from '@abp/ng.theme.shared';

@Component({
  /* class metadata here */
})
class DemoComponent {
  constructor(private confirmation: ConfirmationService) {}
}
```

## Usage

You can use the `success`, `warn`, `error`, and `info` methods of `ConfirmationService` to display a confirmation popup.

### How to Display a Confirmation Popup

```js
const confirmationStatus$ = this.confirmation.success('Message', 'Title');
```

- The `ConfirmationService` methods accept three parameters that are `message`, `title`, and `options`.
- `success`, `warn`, `error`, and `info` methods return an [RxJS Subject](https://rxjs-dev.firebaseapp.com/guide/subject) to listen to confirmation popup closing event. The type of event value is [`Confirmation.Status`](https://github.com/abpframework/abp/blob/master/npm/ng-packs/packages/theme-shared/src/lib/models/confirmation.ts#L24) that is an enum.

### How to Listen Closing Event

You can subscribe to the confirmation closing event like below:

```js
import { Confirmation, ConfirmationService } from '@abp/ng.theme.shared';

constructor(private confirmation: ConfirmationService) {}

this.confirmation
  .warn('::WillBeDeleted', { key: '::AreYouSure', defaultValue: 'Are you sure?' })
  .subscribe((status: Confirmation.Status) => {
    // your code here
  });
```


- The `message` and `title` parameters accept a string, localization key or localization object. See the [localization document](./Localization.md)
- `Confirmation.Status` is an enum and has three properties;
    - `Confirmation.Status.confirm` is a closing event value that will be emitted when the popup is closed by the confirm button.
    - `Confirmation.Status.reject` is a closing event value that will be emitted when the popup is closed by the cancel button.
    - `Confirmation.Status.dismiss` is a closing event value that will be emitted when the popup is closed by pressing the escape or clicking the backdrop.


If you are not interested in the confirmation status, you do not have to subscribe to the returned observable:

```js
this.confirmation.error('You are not authorized.', 'Error');
```

### How to Display a Confirmation Popup With Given Options

Options can be passed as the third parameter to `success`, `warn`, `error`, and `info` methods:

```js
const options: Partial<Confirmation.Options> = {
  hideCancelBtn: false,
  hideYesBtn: false,
  dismissible: false,
  cancelText: 'Close',
  yesText: 'Confirm',
  messageLocalizationParams: ['Demo'],
  titleLocalizationParams: [],
  icon: 'fa fa-info-circle',
  iconTemplate : '<img src="custom-image-path.jpg" alt=""/>'
} 

this.confirmation.warn(
  'AbpIdentity::RoleDeletionConfirmationMessage',
  'Are you sure?',
  options,
);
```

- `hideCancelBtn` option hides the cancellation button when `true`. Default value is `false`.
- `hideYesBtn` option hides the confirmation button when `true`. Default value is `false`.
- `dismissible` option allows dismissing the confirmation popup by pressing escape or clicking the backdrop. Default value is `true`.
- `cancelText` is the text of the cancellation button. A localization key or localization object can be passed. Default value is `AbpUi::Cancel`.
- `yesText` is the text of the confirmation button. A localization key or localization object can be passed. Default value is `AbpUi::Yes`.
- `messageLocalizationParams` is the interpolation parameters for the localization of the message.
- `titleLocalizationParams` is the interpolation parameters for the localization of the title.
- `icon` is the custom class of the icon. Default value is `undefined`.
- `iconTemplate` is the template for icon. Default value is `undefined`.

With the options above, the confirmation popup looks like this:

![confirmation](./images/confirmation.png)

You are able to pass in an HTML string as title, message, or button texts. Here is an example:

```js
const options: Partial<Confirmation.Options> = {
  yesText: '<i class="fa fa-trash mr-1"></i>Yes, delete it',
};

this.confirmation.warn(
  `
    <strong>Role Demo</strong> will be <strong>deleted</strong>
    <br>
    Do you confirm that?
  `,
  '<span class="my-custom-title">Are you sure?</span>',
  options,
);
```

Since the values are HTML now, localization should be handled manually. Check out the [LocalizationService](./Localization#using-the-localization-service) to see how you can accomplish that.

> Please note that all strings will be sanitized by Angular and not every HTML string will work. Only values that are considered as "safe" by Angular will be displayed.

### How to Remove a Confirmation Popup

The open confirmation popup can be removed manually via the `clear` method:

```js
this.confirmation.clear();
```

## API

### success

```js
success(
  message: Config.LocalizationParam,
  title: Config.LocalizationParam,
  options?: Partial<Confirmation.Options>,
): Observable<Confirmation.Status>
```

> See the [`Config.LocalizationParam` type](https://github.com/abpframework/abp/blob/master/npm/ng-packs/packages/core/src/lib/models/config.ts#L46) and [`Confirmation` namespace](https://github.com/abpframework/abp/blob/master/npm/ng-packs/packages/theme-shared/src/lib/models/confirmation.ts)


### warn

```js
warn(
  message: Config.LocalizationParam,
  title: Config.LocalizationParam,
  options?: Partial<Confirmation.Options>,
): Observable<Confirmation.Status>
```

### error

```js
error(
  message: Config.LocalizationParam,
  title: Config.LocalizationParam,
  options?: Partial<Confirmation.Options>,
): Observable<Confirmation.Status>
```

### info

```js
info(
  message: Config.LocalizationParam,
  title: Config.LocalizationParam,
  options?: Partial<Confirmation.Options>,
): Observable<Confirmation.Status>
```

### clear

```js
clear(
  status: Confirmation.Status = Confirmation.Status.dismiss
): void
```

- `status` parameter is the value of the confirmation closing event.
