# ABP Commercial 4.x to 4.3 Migration Guide

**This release comes with some important changes.** While most of them are not breaking changes, it is strongly suggested to implement these changes in your existing solutions for a smooth upgrade and have no problem with the future releases.

> This upgrade requires some manual changes in your solution files to take advantage of some new features. You can check [this guide](https://docs.abp.io/en/abp/4.3/Migration-Guides/Upgrading-Startup-Template) to learn how you can make the necessary changes in your solution. If you apply that guide, you will also have applied the changes below.

> See also [ABP Framework migration guide](https://docs.abp.io/en/abp/4.3/Migration-Guides/Abp-4_3) for the changes made in the ABP Framework.

## Identity Pro Module

With this release, we've published new packages for the [Identity.Pro](https://docs.abp.io/en/commercial/latest/modules/identity) module. These packages extend the open source Identity module and will provide flexibility to us for adding unique features to the Identity Pro module.

Existing applications should replace some usages as described below.

### Package Changes

* Replace `Volo.Abp.Identity.Domain` with the new `Volo.Abp.Identity.Pro.Domain` package and also replace `AbpIdentityDomainModule` usage with `AbpIdentityProDomainModule` in your module's `[DependsOn]` attribute.
* Replace `Volo.Abp.Identity.Domain.Shared` with the new `Volo.Abp.Identity.Pro.Domain.Shared` package and also replace `AbpIdentityDomainSharedModule` usage with `AbpIdentityProDomainSharedModule` in your module's `[DependsOn]` attribute.
* If you are using EF Core, Replace `Volo.Abp.Identity.EntityFrameworkCore` with the new `Volo.Abp.Identity.Pro.EntityFrameworkCore` package and also replace `AbpIdentityEntityFrameworkCoreModule` usage with `AbpIdentityProEntityFrameworkCoreModule` in your module's `[DependsOn]` attribute.
* If you are using MongoDB, Replace `Volo.Abp.Identity.MongoDB` with the new `Volo.Abp.Identity.Pro.MongoDB` package and also replace `AbpIdentityMongoDbModule` usage with `AbpIdentityProMongoDbModule` in your module's `[DependsOn]` attribute.

### Other Changes

* Find `modelBuilder.ConfigureIdentity()` and change by `modelBuilder.ConfigureIdentityPro()` in your EF Core project.
* If you've used `IdentityDbContext`, use `IdentityProDbContext` instead.

## Blazor UI

Blazor server support comes with this release and we've created separate WebAssembly and Server packages for the modules.

So, if you are using Blazor WebAssembly UI, please make the following changes in your Blazor project;

* **Identity Module**: Use `Volo.Abp.Identity.Pro.Blazor.WebAssembly` NuGet package instead of `Volo.Abp.Identity.Pro.Blazor` package. Also, change `AbpIdentityProBlazorModule` usage to `AbpIdentityProBlazorWebAssemblyModule` in the `[DependsOn]` attribute on your module class.
* **Audit Logging Module**: Use `Volo.Abp.AuditLogging.Blazor.WebAssembly` NuGet package instead of `Volo.Abp.AuditLogging.Blazor` package. Also, change `AbpAuditLoggingBlazorModule` usage to `AbpAuditLoggingBlazorWebAssemblyModule` in the `[DependsOn]` attribute on your module class.
* **Text Template Management Module**: Use `Volo.Abp.TextTemplateManagement.Blazor.WebAssembly` NuGet package instead of `Volo.Abp.TextTemplateManagement.Blazor` package. Also, change `TextTemplateManagementBlazorModule` usage to `TextTemplateManagementBlazorWebAssemblyModule` in the `[DependsOn]` attribute on your module class.
* **Identity Server Module**: Use `Volo.Abp.IdentityServer.Blazor.WebAssembly` NuGet package instead of `Volo.Abp.IdentityServer.Blazor` package. Also, change `AbpIdentityServerBlazorModule` usage to `AbpIdentityServerBlazorWebAssemblyModule` in the `[DependsOn]` attribute on your module class.
* **Language Management Module**: Use `Volo.Abp.LanguageManagement.Blazor.WebAssembly` NuGet package instead of `Volo.Abp.LanguageManagement.Blazor` package. Also, change `LanguageManagementBlazorModule` usage to `LanguageManagementBlazorWebAssemblyModule` in the `[DependsOn]` attribute on your module class.
* **SaaS Module (host)**: Use `Volo.Saas.Host.Blazor.WebAssembly` NuGet package instead of `Volo.Saas.Host.Blazor` package. Also, change `SaasHostBlazorModule` usage to `SaasHostBlazorWebAssemblyModule` in the `[DependsOn]` attribute on your module class.
* **SaaS Module (tenant)**: Use `Volo.Saas.Tenant.Blazor.WebAssembly` NuGet package instead of `Volo.Saas.Tenant.Blazor` package. Also, change `SaasTenantBlazorModule` usage to `SaasTenantBlazorWebAssemblyModule` in the `[DependsOn]` attribute on your module class.
* **File Management Module**: Use `Volo.FileManagement.Blazor.WebAssembly` NuGet package instead of `Volo.FileManagement.Blazor` package. Also, change `FileManagementBlazorModule` usage to `FileManagementBlazorWebAssemblyModule` in the `[DependsOn]` attribute on your module class.

### Resource Reference Changes

Open `<YourProjectName>BundleContributor.cs` and replace `context.Add("main.css");` to `context.Add("main.css", true);`

Open `appsettings.json` and add the following:

```json
"AbpCli": {
    "Bundle": {
      "Mode": "BundleAndMinify", /* Options: None, Bundle, BundleAndMinify */
      "Name": "global",
      "Parameters": {
        "LeptonTheme.Style": "Style6", /* Options: Style1, Style2... Style6 */
        "LeptonTheme.ChangeStyleDynamically": "true"
      }
    }
  }
```

Then run `abp bundle` command in the `blazor` folder to update resource references.

## Angular UI

* **AccountConfigModule**: `AccountConfigModule` has been deprecated. It will be removed in v5.0. Import `AccountAdminConfigModule` instead as shown below:

```js
// app.module.ts

import { AccountAdminConfigModule } from '@volo/abp.ng.account/admin/config';

@NgModule({
  //...
  imports: [
    //...
    AccountAdminConfigModule.forRoot(),
    //...
  ]
})
export class AppModule {}
```

* **CommercialUiConfigModule**: `CommercialUiConfigModule` has been created to make `CommercialUIModule` lazy-loadable. The module will also provide some benefits for the configuration. Import it to the `app.module.ts` as shown below:

```js
import { CommercialUiConfigModule } from '@volo/abp.commercial.ng.ui/config';

@NgModule({
  //...
  imports: [
    //...
    CommercialUiConfigModule.forRoot(),
    //...other abp config modules
  ]
})
export class AppModule {}
```

## ABP Framework Migration Guide

See also [ABP Framework migration guide](https://docs.abp.io/en/abp/4.3/Migration-Guides/Abp-4_3) for the changes made in the framework.