# ABP Version 5.2 Migration Guide

This document is a guide for upgrading ABP 5.1 solutions to ABP 5.2. Please read them all since 5.2 has some changes you should take care.

> See [ABP Framework migration guide](https://docs.abp.io/en/abp/5.2/Migration-Guides/Abp-5_2) for the changes made in the ABP Framework.


## Payment Module

Payment Module has some breaking changes. If you're using payment module, applying following steps carefully is highly recommended.

After all of those changes, the biggest change is Payment Module will work properly if you're using **Tiered** solution.

- `Currency` parameter is a required parameter for **One Time** payment requests. You have to pass that parameter for each `PaymentRequestCreateDto`.

    ```csharp
    await _paymentRequestAppService.CreateAsync(new PaymentRequestCreateDto
    {
        Currency = "USD", // Must be 3 letter ISO name.
        // ...
    });
    ```

- `Volo.Payment.Stripe.HttpApi` package is no longer exists. All requests & webhooks are handled by `Volo.Payment.HttpApi`.

    - Remove `Volo.Payment.Stripe.HttpApi` package from your project.
    - If you haven't added add `Volo.Payment.Stripe.Domain` to your `Domain` layer.
    
- Move your configurations to the `HttpApi.Host` in **tiered** solutions. 
  _The web Layer doesn't contain the entire logic from now. So, you need to move your configurations to where **Application** layer works._

- Stripe webhook URL has been changed. Replace `yourdomain.com/payment/stripe/webhook` with 
    ```
    yourdomain.com/api/payment/stripe/webhook
    ```

## See Also

* [Official blog post for the 5.2 release](https://blog.abp.io/abp/ABP.IO-Platform-5-2-RC-Has-Been-Published)
