templates/module/angular/projects/my-project-name/README.md, before:

# MyProjectName

This is a startup project based on the ABP framework. For more information, visit <a href="https://abp.io/" target="_blank">abp.io</a

## Code scaffolding

Run `ng generate component component-name --project my-project-name` to generate a new component. You can also use `ng generate directive|pipe|service|class|guard|interface|enum|module --project my-project-name`.
> Note: Don't forget to add `--project my-project-name` or else it will be added to the default project in your `angular.json` file. 

## Build

Run `ng build my-project-name` to build the project. The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory.

## Publishing

After building your library with `ng build my-project-name`, go to the dist folder `cd dist/my-project-name` and run `npm publish`.

## Running unit tests

Run `ng test my-project-name` to execute the unit tests via [Karma](https://karma-runner.github.io).

## Further help

To get more help on the Angular CLI use `ng help` or go check out the [Angular CLI README](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli/blob/master/README.md).

Commit message:

update angular version of module template to latest

templates/module/angular/projects/my-project-name/README.md, after:

# MyProjectName

This library was generated with [Angular CLI](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli) version 12.0.4.

## Code scaffolding

Run `ng generate component component-name --project my-project-name` to generate a new component. You can also use `ng generate directive|pipe|service|class|guard|interface|enum|module --project my-project-name`.
> Note: Don't forget to add `--project my-project-name` or else it will be added to the default project in your `angular.json` file. 

## Build

Run `ng build my-project-name` to build the project. The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory.

## Publishing

After building your library with `ng build my-project-name`, go to the dist folder `cd dist/my-project-name` and run `npm publish`.

## Running unit tests

Run `ng test my-project-name` to execute the unit tests via [Karma](https://karma-runner.github.io).

## Further help

To get more help on the Angular CLI use `ng help` or go check out the [Angular CLI Overview and Command Reference](https://angular.io/cli) page.
