# ABP version 6.0 Migration Guide

This document is a guide for upgrading ABP 5.3 solutions to ABP 6.0. Please read them all since 6.0 has some changes you should take care of.

> See the [ABP Framework migration guide](https://docs.abp.io/en/abp/6.0/Migration-Guides/Abp-6_0) for the changes made in the ABP Framework.

## Renamed UrlSortingMiddleware

There was a typo in **CMS.Kit.Pro.Public.Web** module. UrlSortingMiddleware is renamed to UrlshortingMiddleware. 

## Refining User Edit Permission

We have made some improvements in `Identity.Pro Module` to avoid users changing their roles to get more permissions. By default, the admin user will not have these new permissions. See [ABP 6.0 Identity Pro Breaking Change guide](./v6.0_identity_pro.md) for more info.

## Introducing Language Management NPM package

The projects using the **Language Management module and not using Lepton theme** should add this new package in order to prevent `flag-icons.min.css cannot be found` in error. 

**package.json**:

```json
"dependencies": {
    "@volo/language-management": "^6.0.0"
}
```

> This was not a problem before since Lepton Theme had already flag-icon dependency.

## Migrating to LeptonX

LeptonX is now being introduced and you can follow the guides below to migrate your existing applications:

- [Migrating to LeptonX MVC UI](../themes/lepton-x/commercial/mvc.md)
- [Migrating to LeptonX Angular UI](../themes/lepton-x/commercial/angular.md)
- [Migrating to LeptonX Blazor UI](../themes/lepton-x/commercial/blazor.md)

## Migrating to OpenIdDict

You can follow the [IdentityServer to OpenIddict Step by Step Guide](openIddict-step-by-step.md) for migrating your existing application in detail with sample projects.

For the microservice template, check the [Migrating Microservice Application to OpenIddict Guide](openIddict-microservice).

## See Also

* [Official blog post for the 6.0 release](https://blog.abp.io/abp/ABP.IO-Platform-6.0-RC-Has-Been-Published)
