# Dynamic JavaScript API Client Proxies

It is typical to consume your HTTP APIs from your JavaScript code. To do that, you normally deal with low level AJAX calls, like $.ajax, or better [abp.ajax](JavaScript-API/Ajax.md). ABP Framework provides **a better way** to call your HTTP APIs from your JavaScript code: Dynamic JavaScript API Client Proxies!

## A Quick Example

Assume that you have an application service defined as shown below:

````csharp
using System;
using System.Threading.Tasks;
using Volo.Abp.Application.Dtos;
using Volo.Abp.Application.Services;

namespace Acme.BookStore.Authors
{
    public interface IAuthorAppService : IApplicationService
    {
        Task<AuthorDto> GetAsync(Guid id);

        Task<PagedResultDto<AuthorDto>> GetListAsync(GetAuthorListDto input);

        Task<AuthorDto> CreateAsync(CreateAuthorDto input);

        Task UpdateAsync(Guid id, UpdateAuthorDto input);

        Task DeleteAsync(Guid id);
    }
}
````

> You can follow the [web application development tutorial](../../Tutorials/Part-1.md) to learn how to create [application services](../../Application-Services.md), expose them as [HTTP APIs](../../API/Auto-API-Controllers.md) and consume from the JavaScript code as a complete example.

You can call any of the methods just like calling a JavaScript function. The JavaScript function has the identical function **name**, **parameters** and the **return value** with the C# method.

**Example: Get the authors list**

````js
acme.bookStore.authors.author.getList({
  maxResultCount: 10
}).then(function(result){
  console.log(result.items);
});
````

**Example: Delete an author**

```js
acme.bookStore.authors.author
    .delete('7245a066-5457-4941-8aa7-3004778775f0') //Get id from somewhere!
    .then(function() {
        abp.notify.info('Successfully deleted!');
    });
```

## AJAX Details

Dynamic JavaScript client proxy functions use the [abp.ajax](JavaScript-API/Ajax.md) under the hood. So, you have the same benefits like **automatic error handling**. Also, you can fully control the AJAX call by providing the options.

### The Return Value

Every function returns a [Deferred object](https://api.jquery.com/category/deferred-object/). That means you can chain with `then` to get the result, `catch` to handle the error, `always` to perform an action once the operation completes (success or failed).

### AJAX Options

Every function gets an additional **last parameter** after your own parameters. The last parameter is called as `ajaxParams`. It is an object that overrides the AJAX options.

**Example: Set `type` and `dataType` AJAX options**

````js
acme.bookStore.authors.author
    .delete('7245a066-5457-4941-8aa7-3004778775f0', {
        type: 'POST',
        dataType: 'xml'
    })
    .then(function() {
        abp.notify.info('Successfully deleted!');
    });
````

See the [jQuery.ajax](https://api.jquery.com/jQuery.ajax/) documentation for all the available options.

## Service Proxy Script Endpoint

The magic is done by the `/Abp/ServiceProxyScript` endpoint defined by the ABP Framework and automatically added to the layout. You can visit this endpoint in your application to see the client proxy function definitions. This script file is automatically generated by the ABP Framework based on the server side method definitions and the related HTTP endpoint details.

## See Also

* [Web Application Development Tutorial](../../Tutorials/Part-1.md)
* [Auto API Controllers](../../API/Auto-API-Controllers.md)
* [Dynamic C# API Client Proxies](../../API/Dynamic-CSharp-API-Clients.md)